Logstash connect to external Elasticsearch (#6895)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/orchestrating-elastic-stack-applications/logstash.asciidoc

<4> Elasticsearch output definitions - use the environment variables created by the Logstash operator when specifying an `ElasticsearchRef`. Note the use of "normalized" versions of the `clusterName` in the environment variables used to populate the relevant fields.

[id="{p}-logstash-external-es"]
==== Connect to an external Elasticsearch cluster

Logstash can connect to external Elasticsearch cluster that is not managed by ECK.
You can reference a Secret instead of an Elasticsearch cluster in the `elasticsearchRefs` section through the `secretName` attribute:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes,callouts"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: external-es-ref
stringData:

>   url: https://abcd-42.xyz.elastic-cloud.com <1>

Reviewer: I think we should add a note somewhere that we add the default port of `443` to `https` URLs, as this is different behavior to standard logstash plugins, and different to how non-cloud Elasticsearch works out of the box

  username: logstash_user <2>
  password: REDACTED <3>
  ca.crt: REDACTED <4>
---
apiVersion: logstash.k8s.elastic.co/v1alpha1
kind: Logstash
metadata:
  name: quickstart
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRefs:
    - clusterName: prod-es
      secretName: external-es-ref <5>
  monitoring:
    metrics:
      elasticsearchRefs:

>       - secretName: external-es-ref <5>

Reviewer 2: Assuming a user specifies a URL without explicit port in the secret, then the changes in this PR append 443 by default for the environment. However Beats also assume 9200 by default and while the Logstash side is fixed, the monitoring will still not work until the user fixes the `url` field in the secret to include a port.

You can reference a Secret instead of an Elasticsearch cluster in the `elasticsearchRefs` section through the `secretName` attribute:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes,callouts"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: external-es-ref
stringData:
  url: https://abcd-42.xyz.elastic-cloud.com:443 <1>
  username: logstash_user <2>
  password: REDACTED <3>
  ca.crt: REDACTED <4>
---
apiVersion: logstash.k8s.elastic.co/v1alpha1
kind: Logstash
metadata:
  name: quickstart
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRefs:
    - clusterName: prod-es
      secretName: external-es-ref <5>
  monitoring:
    metrics:
      elasticsearchRefs:
      - secretName: external-es-ref <5>
    logs:
      elasticsearchRefs:
      - secretName: external-es-ref <5>
----

<1> The URL to reach the Elasticsearch cluster.
<2> The username of the user to be authenticated to the Elasticsearch cluster.
<3> The password of the user to be authenticated to the Elasticsearch cluster.
<4> The CA certificate in PEM format to secure communication to the Elasticsearch cluster (optional).
<5> The `secretName` and `name` attributes are mutually exclusive, you have to choose one or the other.

> NOTE: Please always specify the port in URL when connect to external Elasticsearch Cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: Please always specify the port in URL when connecting to an external Elasticsearch Cluster.
```
